Our third use case is about
the human information network.
That means a personal information network.
The graphic you see there
is my LinkedIn network.
Everybody who is on my LinkedIn is a node.
And if they know each other,
there's an edge between them.
You can possibly see some groups or
clusters there.
One analytical question
we'll explore in module two
is how to discover these
groups automatically.
Now of course with LinkedIn we only
have professional information.
But it is prudent to ask whether
one can integrate the professional network
with other forms of personal information.
This would be other social media data like
my friendship network from Facebook or
Google, or it could be information
like my Outlook email network.
One can add even more information and
put that interpersonal relationships.
For example, Professor Norman who is
on my contact list is my director.
And if we add my calendar to this,
one can find events that I'll be attending
and people that I will be meeting.
Taking it even further, for
special applications you might
actually include financial and
business transactions, or
performance in activities,
or fitness information, or
the location from my GPS.
Now, if you add all of these questions, we
should ask what we do with these things?
Let's see.
One use of this kind of
information is matching.
For example, matching people with jobs
is not just a matter of screening
series based on job descriptions or
evaluating their job experience.
To recruit for high level positions,
like the board of directors of a company,
you need to evaluate the network of the
candidate to determine their relationships
with important organizations,
groups, and individuals.
For some tasks like choosing a surgeon,
you might also want inspect
their social media ratings.
In other classic applications,
we might want to look for
people who can influence a human network.
Suppose, we are in an election
campaign team, and
need our message to get to as many
people as possible in a city.
We can not go door to door ourselves,
we need to go to some people, and
these people will reach
others on our behalf.
Graph analytic techniques may help
identify the fewest number of people
who will have maximal reach into most
of the potential voters in the city.
A third category of application
is threat detection.
This network is created
by groups who study news.
For example,
they collect information about all
the militant groups in different countries
and all the reported acts of terrorism.
This creates a network as you can see.
We show only a part of the network.
In this graph view,
the green notes are groups and
the pink notes are deemed individuals.
It should be clear that some
of these individuals and
groups are more closely
associated than others.
Discovering and tracking these groups,
their current activities,
together with an analysis of details of
the events they're associated with might
help analysts to get deeper
insight into the networks and
perhaps anticipate their
future activities.